
TopNet runs hourly (by reference time) and is dependent on (1)
streamflow at the same reference time, and (2) the most recent available
12-hourly nzlam output.  "most recent available" depends on how far ahead
of the nzlam we allow topnet to run.  In catchup, this should be at most
12 hours because there is no reason not to use the most recent possible
nzlam data. In real time we've chosen 24 hours because timeliness of 
real time forecasts, given new streamflow data, overrides nzlam
recentness to some extent. 

CATCHUP, WITH NZLAM:

There is no gap between nzlam cycles in catchup but topnet and
streamflow still run much faster than nzlam, so topnet will quickly run
out as far ahead of nzlam as it's "fuzzy prerequisite" limits allow
(min:max by ref time). => we need to impose a max 12 hour fuzzy
prerequisite in this case (if we used a 24 hour max, topnet would just
run exactly 24 hours ahead of nzlam instead of 12, which is worse use of
foreast data for only 12 reference-time hours of system time gain).

CATCHUP, WITH OPER2TEST NZLAM

Nzlam effectively runs instantly (the nzlam data has already been
generated), so topnet won't run more than one nzlam cycle (12 hours)
ahead of the nzlam. => we don't need to (but could) impose a max
12 hour fuzzy preqrequisite in this case.

REAL TIME

Nzlam and oper2test are effectively the same slow beast here - one
generates the data, the other waits on it being generated, and very slow
relative to topnet. TopNet will therefore want to keep pace with
streamflow (15 min past the hour) except when constrained by its fuzzy
nzlam prerequisite. => we need to impose a max 24 hour fuzzy
prerequisite in this case (as above).

HOW TO DETECT CATCHUP VS REAL TIME

The three tasks involved here are: nzlam, topnet, streamflow. nzlam and
topnet don't know about real time, but streamflow does: if caught up, it
has to wait until 15 min past the hour of its reference time before
requesting new streamflow observations. So, topnet's fuzzy prerequisite
limits (12 or 24 hours) should ideally be determined by the streamflow
task of the same reference time (i.e. the one that satisfies its
streamflow prerequisite). But, topnet(T) is created without regard for
whether or not streamflow(T) exists yet (although it almost certainly
would exist first because streamflow(T-1) necessarily finishes before
topnet(T-1)) so a new topnet should use the most recent streamflow's
catchup status (most recent by reference time, not creation time, in
case streamflow tasks are created in parallel, or out of order at start
up). 
